= Base58GMP

High speed Base58 encoding using GMP with MD5 support and transcoding between Flickr, Bitcoin and GMP alphabets.

== Installation

=== Gem Installation

Download and install base58_gmp with the following:

  gem install base58_gmp

== Usage

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'base58_gmp'

  # Encode Int as Base58
  Base58GMP.encode(12345)                         # => 4ER

  # Encode GMP::Z Int as Base58
  Base58GMP.encode(GMP::Z(12345))                 # => 4ER

  # Encode as Base58 using alternate alphabets
  Base58GMP.encode(12345, 'bitcoin')              # => 4fr
  Base58GMP.encode(12345, 'gmp')                  # => 3cn

  # Decode Base58 as GMP::Z Integer
  Base58GMP.decode('4ER')                         # => 12345

  # Decode Base58 as GMP::Z Integer using alternate alphabets
  Base58GMP.decode('4fr', 'bitcoin')              # => 12345
  Base58GMP.decode('3cn', 'gmp')                  # => 12345

  # MD5 Base58 Digest
  Base58GMP.md5('foo@bar.com')                    # => w6fdCRXnUXyz7EtDn5TgN9

  # Convert between alphabets
  Base58GMP.from_to('123456789abcdefghijk','flickr','gmp') # => 0123456789ABCDEFGHIJ
  Base58GMP.from_to('0123456789ABCDEFGHIJ','gmp','flickr') # => 123456789abcdefghijk

== Notes

=== Base58 Implementations - Flickr, Bitcoin and GMP

This class supports the Base58 alphabets used by Flickr, Bitcoin and GMP. The Flickr alphabet is the default and used when no alphabet is provided.

Flickr Alphabet: [0-9a-zA-Z] excluding [0OIl] to improve human readability

Bitcoin Alphabet: [0-9A-Za-z] excluding [0OIl] to improve human readability

GMP Alphabet: [0-9A-Za-v]

The encode, decode and md5 methods support an alphabet parameter which can be set to the supported alphabets ['bitcoin', 'flickr', 'gmp'] to indicate the value to be encoded or decoded.

=== GMP

This class requires GMP 4.2.0 or above. Prior versions are limited to Base36.

== Links

Flickr post introducing Base58:

http://www.flickr.com/groups/api/discuss/72157616713786392/

Bitcoin wiki Base58 article:

https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Base58Check_encoding

== Problems, Comments, Suggestions?

All of the above are most welcome. mailto:johncwang@gmail.com

== Credits

John Wang - http://johnwang.com

Some test examples courtesy Fraser Speirs' Base58Encoder Objective-C class, http://gist.github.com/101674.

== License

Base58GMP is available under an MIT-style license.

:include: MIT-LICENSE 

== Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or implied warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of merchantibility and fitness for a particular purpose.
